# Working with Files and Folders

## Listing files

You get all the items in a folder by using ```Get-ChildItem```

```PowerShell
Get-ChildItem -Path C:\
```

This shows what is in the root level of the C drive, but only what is visible to the user. If you want to see hidden or system files then you have to add the ```-Force``` parameter.  
If you want to add recursion the you have to add the ```-Recurse```  parameter. If you wanted to get all the files on the C drive then you would have to run (Not recommended because it can take a while and give a lot of output):

```PowerShell
Get-ChildItem -Path C:\ -Force -Recurse
```

### Get-ChildItem Filtering

The filters that Get-ChildItem has is **Path**, **Filter\***, **Include**, and **Exclude**. Filter is not recommended that much because if you are going to do complex filtering then use ```Where-Object```. Include and Exclude are similar as you use them with wildcards(*). So to get all the exe files in the system32 folder you would run:

```PowerShell
# When using the -Include parameter, if you do not include an asterisk in the path
# the command returns no output.
Get-ChildItem -Path C:\Windows\System32\* -Recurse -Include *.exe
```

## Copying Files and Folders

Files and Folders are copied by using the ```Copy-Item``` cmdlet. Path is where you are copying items from and Destination is where you are putting them.

```PowerShell
Copy-Item -Path C:\boot.ini -Destination C:\boot.bak
```

You do not need to have the ```-Path``` or ```Destination``` parameters set. It does help for organization and clarity, but PowerShell with use the first path given as source and second path as destination.

```PowerShell
Copy-Item C:\boot.ini C:\boot.bak
```

If the destination file already exists ten the copy will fail and you have to use ```-Force``` to overwrite it.

```PowerShell
Copy-Item -Path C:\boot.ini -Destination C:\boot.bak -Force
```

If you want to copy folders then you have to use the ```-Recurse``` parameter.

```PowerShell
Copy-Item C:\temp\test1 -Recurse C:\temp\DeleteMe
```

### Copy Filtering

Filtering in copy only works with the ```-Filter``` parameter and it acts like the ```-Include``` parameter from ```Get-ChildItem```. If you want to copy all the text documents then you would run:

```PowerShell
Copy-Item -Filter *.txt -Path C:\data -Recurse -Destination C:\temp\text
```

## Creating Files and Folders

To create files or directories you use the ```New-Item``` cmdlet.
If you want to create directories then you use the ```-ItemType``` parameter.

```PowerShell
New-Item -Path C:\temp\test -ItemType Directory
```

To create a new file then you set ```-ItemType``` to File.

```PowerShell
New-Item -Path C:\temp\test\file.txt -ItemType File
```

If you do not specify the ItemType then PowerShell will choose File.

## Deleting Files and Folders

To delete files in PowerShell you use ```Remove-Item``` cmdlet.  

```PowerShell
Remove-Item -Path C:\temp\test -Recurse
```

If you do not the ```-Recurse``` parameter then you will be prompted to delete the folder and it's contents.
